{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green78\blue192;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red66\green71\blue75;\red246\green247\blue249;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c40000\c80000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c32941\c34902\c36471;\cssrgb\c97255\c97647\c98039;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25180\viewh19060\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 File format\
File signature\
\
Binary files:\
- Header (contain metadata for a computer program to interpret the data in the file)\
- Flat binary file (no header)\
- encoding (to base10, 16, 64, etc.)\
- public-key\
- private-key\
- enthrophy\
- random variable\
- binary-to-text encoding\
- interpretation\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Metadata
\f0\b0 \'a0is "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 data}}\'a0that provides information about other data",{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata#cite_note-1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 \super \strokec4 [1]}}\'a0but not the content of the data, such as the text of a message or the image itself. There are many distinct types of metadata, including:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Descriptive metadata
\f0\b0 \'a0\'96 the descriptive information about a resource.\super [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Vagueness"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i \cf4 \strokec4 vague}}]\nosupersub \'a0It is used for discovery and identification. It includes elements such as title, abstract, author, and keywords.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Structural metadata
\f0\b0 \'a0\'96 metadata about containers of data and indicates how compound objects are put together, for example, how pages are ordered to form chapters. It describes the types, versions, relationships, and other characteristics of digital materials.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata#cite_note-2"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \super \strokec4 [2]}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Administrative metadata{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata#cite_note-Metadata_Basics_Outline-3"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [3]}}
\f0\b0 \'a0\'96 the information to help manage a resource, like resource type, permissions, and when and how it was created.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata#cite_note-Understanding_Metadata_(2)-4"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \super \strokec4 [4]}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Reference metadata
\f0\b0 \'a0\'96 the information about the contents and quality of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_data_type"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 statistical data}}.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Statistical metadata{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata#cite_note-:4-5"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [5]}}
\f0\b0 \'a0\'96 also called process data, may describe processes that collect, process, or produce statistical data.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata#cite_note-:5-6"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \super \strokec4 [6]}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Legal metadata
\f0\b0 \'a0\'96 provides information about the creator,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 copyright}}\'a0holder, and public licensing, if provided.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Metadata is not strictly bounded to one of these categories, as it can describe a piece of data in many other ways.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A text file may consist partly or entirely of encoded binary information. When sending binary files over the network they may be encoded so that they use only printable characters. This is often necessary due to the limitations of network protocols used for internet browsing and e-mail communication. One such encoding is\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Base64}}. Also, files containing public-key and private-key information for use in systems employing\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asymmetric_cryptography"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 asymmetric cryptography}}\'a0(such as\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_certificate"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 website certificates}}) may also be stored with the binary information encoded in printable characters.
\f0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa90\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Structure\cf6 \strokec6 [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Binary_file&action=edit&section=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 edit}}]\cf0 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Binary files are usually thought of as being a sequence of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 bytes}}, which means the binary digits ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bit"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 bits}}) are grouped in eights. Binary files typically contain bytes that are intended to be interpreted as something other than text\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_(computing)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 characters}}.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compiled"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Compiled}}\'a0computer programs are typical examples; indeed, compiled applications are sometimes referred to, particularly by programmers, as\'a0
\f1\b binaries
\f0\b0 . But binary files can also mean that they contain images, sounds, compressed versions of other files, etc. \'96 in short, any type of file content whatsoever.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_file#cite_note-:0-1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \super \strokec4 [1]}}\
Some binary files contain\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Header_(computing)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 headers}}, blocks of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 metadata}}\'a0used by a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_program"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 computer program}}\'a0to interpret the data in the file. The header often contains a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_file_signatures"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 signature or\'a0
\f2\i magic
\f0\i0 \'a0number}}\'a0which can identify the format. For example, a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIF"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 GIF}}\'a0file can contain multiple images, and headers are used to identify and describe each block of image data. The leading bytes of the header would contain text like\'a0\cb7 \strokec5 GIF87a\cb3 \strokec2 \'a0or\'a0\cb7 \strokec5 GIF89a\cb3 \strokec2 \'a0that can identify the binary as a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIF"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 GIF}}\'a0file. If a binary file does not contain any headers, it may be called a\'a0
\f1\b flat binary file
\f0\b0 .\
A text file may consist partly or entirely of encoded binary information. When sending binary files over the network they may be encoded so that they use only printable characters. This is often necessary due to the limitations of network protocols used for internet browsing and e-mail communication. One such encoding is\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Base64}}. Also, files containing public-key and private-key information for use in systems employing\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asymmetric_cryptography"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 asymmetric cryptography}}\'a0(such as\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_certificate"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 website certificates}}) may also be stored with the binary information encoded in printable characters.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs36 \cf0 \strokec5 Interpretation
\f3\fs20 \cf6 \strokec6 [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Binary_file&action=edit&section=4"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 edit}}]
\f4\fs36 \cf0 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 Standards are very important to binary files. For example, a binary file interpreted by the ASCII character set will result in text being displayed. A custom application can interpret the file differently: a byte may be a sound, or a pixel, or even an entire word. Binary itself is meaningless, until such time as an executed algorithm defines what should be done with each bit, byte, word or block. Thus, just examining the binary and attempting to match it against known formats can lead to the wrong conclusion as to what it actually represents. This fact can be used in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steganography"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 steganography}}, where an algorithm interprets a binary data file differently to reveal hidden content. Without the algorithm, it is impossible to tell that hidden content exists.\
}